As we go through angular there are several
concepts that you will encounter.
One such is the angular scope.
Let's try to understand to understand
scope in a bit more detail and
see how we make use of it
within our angular application.
When you read Angular documents,
you will see
scope being referred to as an object
that refers to an application model.
Now, in the first instance that
may not make much sense to you.
But as you get familiar with scope and
how scope works,
it'll become all the more clear
to you how scope is useful.
Now Scope is at the core of how
Angular's two-way data binding works.
And Scope is what acts as the glue
between your controller and the view.
The controller takes part
of the domain model and
then exposes that to your
view through the Scope.
So the controller is able to get
the information from the domain model and
then attach it to scope, and
the scope becomes available to your view.
In some sense the view is getting
a part of the view of the domain model
that is required for the view to work.
The controller can set
properties of the scope, and
these properties become
accessible In the view based upon
how the controller and
the view are tied together.
As we will learn when we go
through the rest of the course
a view can be bumped to a controller and
then the controller decides what
data gets exposed to that view.
Now, once the view makes use of
the properties set by the controller
on the scope, then Angular insures
that the two are kept in sync.
So when the view changes something,
then it'll be reflected
to the scope, to that JavaScript site, and
then when any JavaScript object changes,
that is reflected back to That view.
In Angular the top most scope
is called the root scope.
The root scope is started when
Angular starts your application.
So as Angular Boots up and
then bootstraps your application,
it creates the rootScope.
And as Angular is
traversing through the DOM,
every time it encounters the reason for
creating a new scope It does that.
Some directives expect angular
to create a new scope.
An NG controller is a directive,
for example,
that creates a new scope
under the rootscope.
So, whenever Angular
encounters a controller,
it creates a new scope for
that controller, under the new scope.
So, this scope a child of the root scope,
So, in some sense,
the scope tree that we end up
building is similar to the DOM tree.
There is some relationship
between the two.
As I said,
every time Angular creates a new scope
it creates where it is
a child of a parent scope.
Now of course the root
scope is at the top.
So whenever controllers are created
within the Angular application,
the topmost controllers all inherit a
scope which is a child of the root scope.
Now this is where this is tied to
the way JavaScript prototype works.
The child scope, when it is created,
automatically the child gets access
to everything in that parent scope.
All the properties of the parent scope.
In a sense, using nesting, you are able
to control access to some data.
So for example,
if you have a parent controller and
a child controller that is nested
inside the parent controller.
The child controller will have access
to all the properties as the parent
controller puts on it's scope.
But whatever is inside the child scope,
the parent cannot access directly.
So this inheritance
automatically comes in.
Their are a few other caveats
that we need to keep in mind,
but this is sufficient for
us to operate at this moment.
Let's look at an example of how
you go about creating scope.
Going back to our menu on our HTML page,
we are now going to refactor our code,
to use the angular scope.
Now, so, within this code,
I have moved all the JavaScript
into a separate file called app.js.
Let's take a look at the code in app.js.
Third year,
when we defined the controllers in app.js,
any JavaScript object or property that
we wanted to make available to the view,
we were using this dot and
the JavaScript object or
the JavaScript property and
that made it accessible through the view.
Now with using scope, the scope
gets injected into the controller.
Now how do we define and
use scope with an Angular?
So for the controller, as you can see,
you can define scope like this.
You use a left square bracket and
then within quotes you specify
dollar scope and then function.
You will specify, scope,
as a parameter to that function.
So, inside your code, previously,
what we were writing as this.tab,
this.filtText, we are now going
to realign the scope.tab,
scope.filtText and so on.
And all the objects also
can be created like that.
Now,when you define functions,
you recall that we define some
functions within the control.
So we would define functions here
as scope.select equal to function.
So this function now becomes
available to your view.
Now when you look at the way the view
accesses all these tics.
When you switch to the view, which is in
the HTML page, when you switch to the view
you see that all the items there are now
no longer accessed using menu ctrl.
Instead, the items
are referred to directly.
So for example, you can call it
function by simply saying select 3.
The assumption is that this select
function has been defined and
attached to this scope.
Similarly, the disk item.
So for example, it's ng-repeat you
would have said dish in dishes.
you no longer have to specify
when you see ctrl.dishes.
There is no require similar filtText and
so on.
So here the disk dot or the menu
control dot is no longer required.
Anything that the controller
attaches to the scope immediately
becomes available to the view
by just using the name
of the property that you have
attached to this scope here.
Now so we have rewritten the code for
both the html.
And the app.js to use scope in Angular.
We have already examined nested
scope in a bit more detail.
Now, we are going to encounter
an example of nested scope in the next
lesson where we will examine form.
So there I will introduce you
to a nested scope example.
In this lesson,
we will look at using basic scope.
Once you define nested scopes,
then you have pairings,
and then you have child controllers.
If you define the child controller inside
the area that is controlled by a parent
controller, then the child controller
inherits everything from the parent.
So this is where the scope
hierarchy is illustrated.
At the top, we have the root scope.
From the root scope, so
the parent controller when it is created,
this scope inhibits from the root scope,
and so it creates its own scope.
The scope that is available to the parent
controller now becomes accessible to all
the child controllers under the parent
controller, through inheritance, so
that parent scope is passed
on to the child scope.
So everything on the parent scope can be
accessed within the child controllers,
in their scope.
And similarly the child views.
We'll now move on to the next exercise
where we will examine angular scope.
So this in exercise we we'll understand.
Angular Scope and how it is used.
Then we will refactor our
controller code to use scope and
also refactor the code in
the view to use scope.
We also encounter a new directive
called the ng-show directive.
Now when you attach ng-show directive
to any element you can show or
hide the element by attaching a property
that is either true or false.
When it is true the element is shown.
When it is false the element is hidden.
There's a counterpart to ng-show called
ng-hide which exhibits the exact opposite
behavior as ng-show.